2A] Automate Uipath Number Calculation (Subtraction, Multiplication, Division Of Numbers).

Step1

Open UiPath Studio -> Start -> New Project-> Click Process


Step 2

Now, create a New Blank Process, name it UiArithmatic and give it a description

Step 3

After that, UiPath studio creates the project UiArithmatic with the supporting files:


Step 4

Next, to perform arithmetic operations:

Double-click the Main.xaml workflow, Click Activities -> search Input Dialog ->Drag and drop it into the sequence

For reading the First Number, set the values Display name, Label, Title, Result (for the result value, go to variables tab and create a variable Num1 in the property window)

Similarly, create one more Input Dialog for Second Number, set the values Display name, Label, Title, Result (for the result value, go to variables tab and create a variable Num2 in the property window).


Step 5

For Arithmetic operations:
Click Activities -> search message box -> Drag and drop it into the sequence, then edit the text in 4 message boxes Addition, Subtraction, Multiplication, and Division,

Step 5

To run your project, select debug file -> Run, The output of the UiArithmatic project is: Read the First Number: 

Read the Second Number:

The result of the arithmetic operation is:
Conclusion :Thus We Have Studied To Automate Uipath Number Calculation (Subtraction, Multiplication, Division Of Numbers).






2B] Create An Automation Uipath Project Using Different Types Of Variables (Number, Datetime, Boolean, Generic, Array, Data Table).
Create Variables
To create variables in UiPath, the following are the two options available.

•	Select an activity and press on Ctrl + K in the output section of the Properties Pane.
•	Click on the Variable Pane as below.

Remove Variables
To remove variables in UiPath, the following are the two options available.

•	Choose variable from Variable Pane -> Right Click -> Choose Delete.
•	Choose the option “Remove Unused Variables” from Design Tab.

The first option would remove only the selected variable and the second option would remove all the unused variables in the sequence.

Manage Variables
To manage variables in UiPath, the following are the two parameters you have to consider. Refer below.

•	Mention the Scope of the Variable.
•	Mention the Default value(You do not have to mention the default value for each and every variable).

Now, let us move forward and see the various types of variables. Types of Variables
The various types of variables are as follows:

•	Text Variables – This type of variables is used to store the text values.
•	True/False Variables – This type of variables is used to store Boolean values.
•	Number Variables – This type of variables is used to store Integer values.
•	Array Variables – This type of variables is used to store an array of integers or string.
•	Date and Time Variables – This types of variables is used to store date and time variables.
•	Data Table Variables – This type of variables is used to store Data Table, which stores the values in the form of table.

 
•	Generic Variables – This type of variables is used to store generic type such as Mail Merge, Database etc.


Now, let us move forward to the next topic i.e. Data Types in UiPath. Data Types InUiPath
Data Types classify the type of the value of the variable. In UiPath, it could either be an Integer, String, Boolean, Generic or an Array Of.

So, to choose the data type of the variables, you have to go to the Variable Pane and then choose the Variable Type. Refer below.

Conclusion :Thus we have studied to Create An Automation Uipath Project Using Different Types Of Variables (Number, Datetime, Boolean, Generic, Array, Data Table).


