3a Create An Automation Uipath Project Using Decision Statements.
If & Else Statement :

This activity decides whether a certain activity or a block of activities will be executed or not. To explain you the functionality of this activity, let us create an automation task to find whether a number is even/odd.

Find whether a number is even/odd
Step 1: Drag a Input Dialog and mention the Title and Label. Here I want to mention the Input as number, so I have mentioned the Title as “Number” and Label as “Mention Number”. Refer below.

Step 2: In the Properties pane of this activity, go to the output section and press on Ctrl + K to create a variable. Here I have created a variable ‘number’ of Int32 Type.

Step 3: Drag an If activity and in the condition section mention number mod 2 = 0. After that, in the  Then section drag a message box and mention number.ToString + ” is a even number” and in the Else section drag a message box and mention number.ToString + ” is a odd number”. Refer below.


When you execute this particular sequence you would get a input dialog to enter a number.If the number which you enter is even, then you will see an output that number is even else would see an output that number is odd.

	Switch Activity

This activity enables you to enables you to select one choice out of multiple, based on the value of a specified expression. To explain you the functionality of this activity, let us create an automation task to find whether sum of two numbers is even/odd.

Sum of two numbers is even/odd
Step 1: Drag a Input Dialog and mention the Title and Label. Here I want to mention the Input as the first number, so I have mentioned the Title as “Enter first number” and Label as “First Number”.

Step 1.1: In the Properties pane of this activity, go to the output section and press on Ctrl + K to create a variable. Here I have created a variable ‘firstnumber‘ of Int32 Type.

Step 2: Drag a Input Dialog again and mention the Title and Label. Here I want to mention the Input as the second number, so I have mentioned the Title as “Enter first number” and Label as “First Number”.

Step 2.1: In the Properties pane of this activity, go to the output section and press on Ctrl + K to create a variable. Here I have created a variable ‘secondnumber‘ of Int32 Type. Refer below.

Step 3: After that drag the Assign activity, and assign the To section to total and the value section to firstnumber + secondnumber. This will increase the counter by 1, until the condition is satisfied. (Here total is a variable of Int32 type, which you have to create).

Step 4: Drag the Switch activity and in the Expression section mention total mod 2 = 0. Now, in the Default section drag a message box to display the output “Number is even”. Similarly in the Case 1 section drag a message box to display the output “Number is odd”.
 
When you execute this particular sequence you would get two input dialog one after the other to to enter a number. If the sum of the numbers which you entered is even, then you will see an output that number is even else would see an output that number is odd.

Conclusion :Thus we have studied to Create An Automation Uipath Project Using Decision Statements.












3B] CreateAn Automation Uipath Project Using Looping Statements.

 
For,While,Do While
	While Activity

This activity enables you to execute a specific process repeatedly, while a specific condition is met. To explain you the functionality of this activity, let us create an automation task to print the numbers 1-10.

Print Numbers 1-10
Step 1: Drag the While activity and in the condition section mention the condition count < 10. But, before that create the variable count.

Step 2: In the Body section of this activity, drag an Assign activity, and assign the To section to count and the value section to count + 1 function. This will increase the counter by 1, until the condition is satisfied. Refer below.


Step 3: Drag the Append Line activity and mention the File Name, where you want to store the Text that you will quote in this activity. Over here, I have mentioned the Text to be “The counter is now ” + count.ToString
+”.”. Refer below.


Your final flow of execution and output will look like below.
Now, let us move forward to the next activity i.e. Do-While activity.

	Do While Activity

This activity enables you to execute a specified part of your automation while a condition is met. To explain you the functionality of this activity, let us create an automation task to print the numbers 1-10.

Print Numbers 1-10
Step 1: Drag the Do-While activity and condition section mention the condition count < 10. But, before that create the variable count.

Step 2: In the Body section of this activity, drag an Assign activity, and assign the To section to count and the value section to count + 1. This will increase the counter by 1, until the condition is satisfied. Refer below.


Step 3: Drag the Append Line activity and mention the File Name, where you want to store the Text that you will quote in this activity. Over here, I have mentioned the Text to be “The counter is now ” + count.ToString
+”.”. Refer below
Conclusion : Thus we have studied to Create An Automation Uipath Project Using Looping Statements.


















